Update releases md (#58)
inbo/protocolsource: RELEASES.md

# Creating a new release (guidelines for repo-admins)

After review of a protocol-branch and before each release the following steps will be run automatically and may require action:

1.  A GitHub Action will run when a pull request is made to the main branch.

>     1.  This action will automatically run these checks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1.  This action will update the version number if needed and automatically run these checks:
```

        1.  `protocolhelper::check_frontmatter()`

        2.  `protocolhelper::check_structure()`

    2.  Check any error messages resulting from these checks and address them.
        Repeat this step until all checks succeeded.

>         In principle, these errors should be addressed by the protocol contributor, but admins can help if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        In principle, these errors should be addressed by the protocol contributor, but admins can help if needed.
        Note that during this automatic run, a commit to update the version number may be automatically pushed to the remote.
        This should not pose a problem for local clones as this change can be automatically included and will not cause conflicts (i.e. `git pull origin main` with a local protocol branch checked out)
```

2.  A second GitHub Action will be run when a pull request to be merged into the main branch *upon approval*.

    1.  This action will automatically update:

        1.  the repo-wide `NEWS.md` file with `protocolhelper:::update_news_release()`

        2.  the `.zenodo.json` file with `protocolhelper:::update_zenodo()`

    1..
    Check if the second Github Action ran without problems.
    If needed, admins should address any problems.
    Note that during these automatic updates, the two commits will be automatically pushed to the remote.

>     This should not pose a problem for local clones as these changes can be automatically included and will not cause conflicts (i.e. `git pull origin main` with a local protocol branch checked out)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To add these commits to your local clone, press pull in the RStudio Git Pane.
```
I suppose also repo-admins don't need this long description to remember they have to pull?  ;-)

3.  A third GitHub Action will be run upon a push to the main branch to update the `protocols` website.
    I.e. when the pull request is merged into the main branch.

    1.  This will automatically trigger the following:

        1.  the general and protocol-specific tags (see [release model](README.md#release-model)) will be created and added to that merge commit.
            This will be done by `protocolhelper:::set_tags()`

            1.  general tag: `protocols-<version number>`

            2.  specific tag: `<protocol-code>-<version number>`

        2.  render the new or updated protocol and commit/push this to the `protocols` repo (which contains the rendered protocols that are needed to build the website).

>             The rendering is done by `protocolhelper:::render_release()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The rendering is done by `protocolhelper:::render_release()`.
            The same general and protocol-specific tags are added to this commit on `protocols`.
```

# Creating a new release (guidelines for repo-admins)

After review of a protocol-branch and before each release the following steps will be run automatically and may require action:

> 1.  A GitHub Action will run when a pull request is made to the main branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  A GitHub Action will run when a pull request to the main branch is made or updated.
```

    1.  This action will update the version number if needed and automatically run these checks:

        1.  `protocolhelper::check_frontmatter()`

        2.  `protocolhelper::check_structure()`

    2.  Check any error messages resulting from these checks and address them.

>         Repeat this step until all checks succeeded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Repeat this step until all checks succeed.
```

        In principle, these errors should be addressed by the protocol contributor, but admins can help if needed.
        Note that during this automatic run, a commit to update the version number may be automatically pushed to the remote.

>         If this commit is added, press pull in the RStudio Git Pane to add it to your local clone.

Reviewer 2: Not all admins will use the RStudio buttons to control git.

```suggestion
        If this commit is added in the remote, pull it into your local clone.
```

> 2.  A second GitHub Action will be run when a pull request to be merged into the main branch *upon approval*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2.  A second GitHub Action will be run when a pull request to be merged into the main branch *is approved*.
```

At least I think this is what is meant.

    1.  This action will automatically update:

        1.  the repo-wide `NEWS.md` file with `protocolhelper:::update_news_release()`

        2.  the `.zenodo.json` file with `protocolhelper:::update_zenodo()`

>     1..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1.
```

    Check if the second Github Action ran without problems.
    If needed, admins should address any problems.
    Note that during these automatic updates, the two commits will be automatically pushed to the remote.

>     To add these commits to your local clone, press pull in the RStudio Git Pane.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    So pull these commits to get them in your local repo.
```

        1.  the general and protocol-specific tags (see [release model](README.md#release-model)) will be created and added to that merge commit.
            This will be done by `protocolhelper:::set_tags()`

            1.  general tag: `protocols-<version number>`

            2.  specific tag: `<protocol-code>-<version number>`

        2.  render the new or updated protocol and commit/push this to the `protocols` repo (which contains the rendered protocols that are needed to build the website).
            The rendering is done by `protocolhelper:::render_release()`.
            The same general and protocol-specific tags are added to this commit in `protocols`.

            1.  Check if this action ran without problems and if needed address them.

            2.  Check success of publication steps at `protocols.inbo.be`

4.  A fourth GitHub Action will run when a tag `protocols-<version number>` is detected.
    This will trigger a GitHub release in the `protocolsource` repo and in the `protocols` repo.
    In turn, a GitHub release will trigger the `.zenodo.json` webhook to publish this new version of the repo contents on Zenodo for long-term archiving of the protocols.

>     5.  Check success of GitHub releases and publication on Zenodo

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1.  Check success of GitHub releases and publication on Zenodo
```

Github Markdown takes into account the actual number when starting a new numbered list.
